Contact:	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Joe Fowler 650/210-1560 - joe.fowler@scenix.com
SCENIX ANNOUNCES ETHERNET EVALUATION KIT FOR SX-STACK
Ordering Options Include E-Commerce Web Site

 Mountain View, Calif. - Aug. 31, 2000 - Scenix, a leading supplier of
solutions for embedding the Internet, today announced the availability of
the Ethernet Evaluation Kit for use with its SX-Stack network protocol
stack. The kit, which has a 10-baseT Ethernet physical interface, allows
OEMs to quickly and easily evaluate and become familiar with using the
Scenix TCP/IP protocol stack.  This will enable them to design Internet
connectivity into embedded applications that require an Ethernet networking
capability.  In addition to such applications as  new remote access and
monitoring devices and industrial control systems, this includes providing a
bridge to the Internet for legacy devices that are already Ethernet-connected.

 The kit contains a demonstration board, an AC power supply, a 9-pin-to-9-pin
serial cable, a CD-ROM containing source code and other information, and a
user's guide.  It can be ordered both from Scenix' local distributors and
on-line at the Montereytools.com e-commerce Web site.

 "When we introduced the SX-Stack running on our single-chip Embedded
Internet Processor a year ago, we were the first company to include such
commonly used physical interfaces as UARTs and I2C along with the TCP/IP
protocol software modules," said Stephan Thaler, Scenix' vice president of
marketing.  "Since then, there's been a growing demand from our customers
for an Ethernet physical interface.  The Ethernet Evaluation Kit is the
first part of our answer to that demand.  It lets designers use an SX Series
Embedded Internet Processor in conjunction with an external chip that
executes the PHY portion of the Ethernet interface to quickly develop and
evaluate embedded solutions with both Internet and Ethernet connectivity."

SX-Stack Source Code On CD-ROM
 The Ethernet Evaluation Kit gives designers hands-on experience with the
SX-Stack, which is a configurable combination of standard Internet protocols
implemented as Virtual Peripheral(tm) modules (software implementations of
peripheral and other functions).  The modules constituting the SX-Stack are:

 * The Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP)
 * The Internet Protocol (IP) and Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP)
 * The User Datagram Protocol (UDP) and Transmission Control Protocol (TCP)
 * The Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP), Hypertext Transfer Protocol
 (HTTP) and Post Office Protocol (POP3)

 The source code for the protocol modules is contained on the CD-ROM that
comes with the evaluation kit.  Two configurations are offered.  One, the
iSX Web Server, consists of the PPP, TCP/IP and HTTP Virtual Peripheral
modules, and allows a standard browser to access and view stored Web pages.
The other is the eSX E-Mail Appliance, which consists of the PPP, TCP/IP,
SMTP and POP3 modules, and allows both transmission and reception of e-mail
messages.

The Demonstration Board
 The demonstration board includes a 50 MIPS SX52BD Embedded Internet
Processor and an external 10-baseT Ethernet interface chip.  The iSX Web
Server and eSX E-Mail Appliance are loaded into the flash/EEPROM memory of
the processor.  An external EEPROM chip is provided for storing Web page
content.  Also included are two DB-9 serial port connections, clock
circuitry, LEDs, a reset button, and a DC power-in plug.

Price and Availability
 The Ethernet Evaluation Kit is priced at $99.00.  It is available through
the company's worldwide network of distributors and representatives, and
from the Montereytools.com e-commerce Web site.

Scenix
 Headquartered in Mountain View, California, Scenix provides communications
software and controllers for embedded applications, with a market emphasis
on embedding the Internet in everyday things.  Scenix is the leading
supplier of Virtual PeripheralTM software modules, which are functions that
are conventionally implemented in hardware.  The company's software
system-on-a-chip approach reduces time to production and system cost, while
providing greater flexibility, compared to traditional design approaches. 

Recognition includes:

* "Best Products of 2000, Controllers," by ChipCenter (an on-line affiliate
of Electronic Engineering Times) for the SX52BD100 communications controller* 
* "Investor's Choice" award, December 1999, as one of the top 10 privately
held companies at the Technologic Partners "Technology Outlook Conference"
* "50 Hot Products of 1999" by EDN Europe for the SX-Stack TCP/IP network
protocol stack*  "100 Hot Products of 1998" by EDN for the 100 MIPS SX Series
communication controller 
* "10 Top Processor List of 1998" by Electronic News for the 100 MIPS SX
Series communication controller 
Additional information on Scenix and its products can be found on the Web at
<www.scenix.com>.# # #

(tm)	Virtual Peripheral is a trademark of Scenix Semiconductor, Inc.
SX-Stack/Ethernet Evaluation Kit Available/2-2-2