
         Modifying any ROM+MBC1+RAM cart to be a C3 cart:
         -----------------------------------------------

1. Cut out old ROM - I use a sharp X-acto and cut the legs off of
  the rom right at the chip. It then is very easy to remove the
  remaining legs with a fine-tipped soldering iron. Another way
  which saves the ROM but takes longer is to lift each leg
  individually with an X-acto or any sharp, pointed device after
  heating each leg with a soldering iron.

   It is VERY easy to damage the PC board rom pads so keep that
  in mind if you use other techniques to remove the ROM.

2. Program the flash eprom with GB Basic if possible - This will
  let you test the cart immediately upon completion of your
  cart soldering work.

3. Install 4mbit flash eprom - I do this by first cleaning ROM
  PC board pads if there is too much solder with solder wick.
  I then place the flash "as is" on the PC board and solder it in
  place with the middle pin on each side where the old ROM was
  located. With two pins of the flash soldered in place, I use
  an X-acto (or sharp, pointed knife) to carefully bend some pins
  on the sides to reach old ROM pads. I then solder all of the
  pins on each side to pads located close by.

4. Solder top & bottom rows of PLCC to board - Since very few
  of the top & bottom pins of the PLCC packaged flash will
  reach the remaining ROM pads on the PC board, with a sharp
  blade I very carefully pry each pin up 90 degrees and then
  use needle nose pliers to mold them in the general direction
  I want them to go.

   You can do this no problem with new flash chips if you are
  careful. This will not work with older, used flash chips that
  have been inserted & removed numerous times. You can only bend
  integrated circuit pins so many times before they will break
  off.

   Use wire wrap wire to solder connect pins that can't reach pads.

5. Install 47k pull up resistor - The wire that goes from
  one end of this resistor connects to pin 31 of the cart
  connector. BEFORE soldering to this cart connector pin place
  some form of tape covering 75% or more of this gold pin. (This
  is to prevent solder from wicking down the whole pin.)

   Remove tape from pin when soldering is complete.

6. Test the cart on your GB - If you programmed the flash with
  GB Basic before installing then it should show this upon
  powering up your GB. If not, you have a wiring problem.
