Boot Logo Tutorial
------------------
 by CyBuilder, v0.1226

[Thanks goes to HunkPapa for the inspiration for this info.]

   Did you know that you can replace the Cybiko
  boot logo with another photo or with a game itself?
  The only drawback is that you will lose password
  protection of your system if you do this. However,
  if you replace the boot logo with BootViewer then
  you will retain password protection.

   The logo that is displayed on power up is actually
  as much a standard Cybiko application as any game.
  With the exception that this app also password protects
  your system (if you have than enabled) to prevent others
  from using it.

   All you need to do to replace the logo with your own
  game that auto-starts on power up is to send a file to
  your Cybiko with the SDK Console. The name of this file
  must be the following:  logo.app

To replace boot logo with another logo
--------------------------------------

 1)  First you need to use CyberLoad to load a picture
    onto the cybiko. To do this, download CyberLoad from
    cybiko.com and install it. Next, start up CyberLoad.
    Select Tools and then Converter on the top menu bar.
    When the Converter window opens, select File and Open
    to view a picture to send to your cybiko. Modify
    this photo as you like and then send it to the cybiko
    as file name: logo.pic

 2)  First, view this photo on the cybiko to make sure
    that it transferred ok. To do this, run the application
    "Uploader & File Manager" on the cybiko. Scroll down
    until you see the photo that you transferred and then
    press <Enter> to view it. Press <Esc> when you are
    done looking at it. Does it look okay? If not, repeat
    step 1 and get it looking how you want before going
    to step 3.

 3)  The file name must be exactly: logo.pic
    All letters must be in lower case.
    If it is this exact name, go to step 4 now.
    If it is not this exact name, the you need to rename
    it at this point. In the "Uploader & File Manager",
    scroll down until you have selected your picture.
    Hold down the <Fn> and press <Enter>. Scroll down
    to Rename and then press <Enter>. Type in: logo.pic
    and then press <Enter>. The filename should now
    look correct. Press <Esc> to exit.

 4)  Next, you need to download and install the BootViewer
    application from here:

      http://www.devrs.com/cybiko/files/logo.zip

     Here are instructions for transferring this application
    to your cybiko:

      http://www.devrs.com/cybiko/files/logoinst.txt

  5) All done! Turn off your cybiko and turn it back on
    to view your photo on power up.

  6) NOTE: Hold down the <Enter> when the photo appears
    to view it as long as you want.


To remove the boot logo completely
----------------------------------

 1)  Install the Cybiko SDK found at cybiko.com.

 2)  Start up the SDK Console program, turn on your
    cybiko, and connect up the cybiko-to-PC cable.

 3)  Type 'ver' and then hit the Enter key in the
    bottom line of the SDK Console. If you don't
    see something like 'CyOS v. .......' then you
    probably have a cable or COM port setting problem.
    Change some settings and retry this step until you
    see this message after typing 'ver' <Enter>.

 4)  In the bottom line of the SDK console, type the
    following and then press the Enter button:
       rm logo.app
    This is a file delete instruction. DO NOT USE IT
    FOR OTHER PURPOSES UNLESS YOU KNOW WHAT YOU'RE
    DOING. IT COULD CAUSE YOUR CYBIKO TO STOP WORKING.

 5)  All done! Turn off the power and then turn it back
    on to test the results.

 6)  To restore the original logo, later, use the logo.zip
    file provided here. You will need to use WinZip to
    convert it to logo.app before you can use it. You will
    then need to use the Send feature in SDK Console.


To replace Logo with auto-start game
------------------------------------
 1)  If you want the game Tetris to automatically run on
    power up in place of the logo then, first, download the
     tetris.zip from here:
       http://www.devrs.com/cybiko

 2)  Unzip this tetris game using WinZip for windows.
    You can get WinZip from here:  http://www.winzip.com

 3)  Just rename the file tetris.app to the file name logo.app

 4)  Follow the instructions, here, for sending logo.app to
    the cybiko using the SDK Console:
       http://www.devrs.com/cybiko/files/cybinst.txt

 5)  All done! On power up, tetris will automatically start.

 6)  To restore the original logo, use the logo.zip file
    provided here. You will need to use WinZip to convert it
    to logo.app before you can use it.

 Disclaimer: None of these suggestions are supported by
 Cybiko or their employees. DO NOT call Cybiko asking for
 more information on how to do this.
