Soldering high-density lead pitch SMD parts using a soldering iron
------------------------------------------------------------------
 by Jeff Frohwein, 2003-Feb-20th

 The key to successfully pulling this off is to use soldering
flux, a solder-coated pc board (silver colored finish, not raw
copper appearance), and not use any solder, unless really
necessary. The detailed steps are below.

 Note that a soldermasked board is not always necessary for
this type of work. Using a little bit of flux or solder wick
makes it easy to clean up solder mistakes on the board and
end up with professional looking results, even after making
several or many mistakes.


1) Clean your pc board with a dry cloth to help remove any dust
   or particles that might make life more difficult.

2) Obtain some rosin soldering flux (such as Radio Shack #64-021
   or similar) and using a resistor lead, or similar, apply a
   very small bit of rosin to all of the chip pads on the
   circuit board. You only need a very small amount. If the
   applied flux is twice as thick on the board as the chip
   lead thickness then that is plenty.

3) Do *NOT* attempt to skip step 2. Using flux is critical for
   this to work, otherwise you may end up with a big mess. You
   will then need to go out and buy some flux and proceed to
   step 12.

4) Carefully center the chip over the flux and set it in place.
   Using an Exact-o knife or other object, carefully slide each
   side of the chip until the pins of the chip perfectly align
   with the pc board pads. Once it is in place, you need to use
   one finger and *gently* apply a minimum amount of pressure
   to keep the chip from moving until you have a chance to solder
   it.

5) Using a fine-tipped soldering iron, clean the tip on a wet
   sponge and then touch one of the corner pins of the chip for
   about 1/4 of a second. If all goes well the minimal amount
   of solder on the pc board will be enough to solder the pin
   in place. You might consider putting some solder on the iron
   before doing this, but if you do, it should only be enough
   to coat the tip of the iron. If the tip has a "blob" of
   solder on it then you need to wipe that off, first, or else
   you will short 2 or more pins together, in which case you
   will need to proceed to step 12.

6) Align the other corner of the chip and then repeat step 5.

7) Carefully check that all IC pins are still aligned and that
   the chip is flat against the pc board. If so, go on to
   step 8. If not, reheat each corner and align it until it
   is right.

8) All you need to do now is lightly touch the soldering iron
   to each pin for about 1/4 second. Do not turn this into a
   long, drawn-out process because the flux is slowly drying
   on you. If needed, add a bit more flux if it is becoming dry.

9) Visually inspect all pins to make sure you soldered them all.

10) Using a sharp knife or extra resistor lead, go along each
   chip connection and lightly push on the foot of each chip
   leg at a 45 degree angle, from the side. If you can visually
   see any leg slightly move then you know that it did not solder
   to the board and needs to be soldered again. It really helps
   to have a powerful light and/or magnifying lens at this point.

11) If you develop a short between two legs then apply a very
   small amount of flux, if there is not some there already, to
   the short. You now have the choice of using a sharp, heat
   resistant instrument to scrape between the legs after you
   heat the joint, or try step 12. Most metal instruments are
   not a good idea for use here because they will stick to the
   solder. (A stainless-steel surgical instrument might work
   well though.)

12)
  A) I have found the following to always be effective for removing
   shorts between legs but it takes some practice. However, it
   should not be used on parts that are very sensitive to shock.
   The general idea is to heat the joint, and while the solder is
   still liquid, to basically slam the pc board against a hard
   surface along the edge of the board. However, the resulting
   solder that gets jarred loose can become a problem for other
   components of the board. So if you plan to do this, you need
   to cover the rest of the
   pc board with a paper towel or similar. Cut out a hole in the
   towel that is just large enough for using the soldering iron.
   Then use electrical tape or similar to secure the edges of the
   hole in the paper towel to the pc board. This is about the
   only way to prevent very tiny solder blobs from lodging in
   adjacent SMD chips.

  B) This suggestion comes from Artur Jasowicz: "As far as
   removing shorts from in-between pins, I've been successful
   with using Desoldering Braid like RadioShack's part 64-2090.
   Another technique I'd recommend is using sharp exacto knife
   to cut excess solder from in-between the pins and then
   re-flux the solder, which will suck extra solder from the
   edge to under the pin."

Have fun!




